more than a 100 Palestinians have been
killed while waiting for food Aid in
Gaza City these images are from that
attack in the southwest of the city a
journalist told the BBC that Israeli
tanks opened fire on a crowd who'd come
to collect supplies a large number of
people had been gathered waiting for
food when the incident happened the
Israeli military issued these aerial
pictures of the incident it says dozens
of garans were crushed and trampled as
they surrounded the aid trucks
separately an Israeli Source confirmed
its troops had fired after feeling
threatened by the crowds near the aid
Point let's have a listen to that
statement from the Israeli Prime
Minister's office the trucks were
overwhelmed and the people driving the
trucks which were Garen
uh Garen civilian drivers uh plowed
into um the crowds of people uh
ultimately killing my understanding is
tens of
people now let's have a listen to an
account from a Palestinian who was
there after they stopped shooting we
went back to get our Aid by the time I
got flour and some canned goods and took
it down from the truck they shot at us
they shot me and the truck driver left
and ran over my leg I lost my
nerves if you want to get us Aid this
way then you might as well not bring
anything what has already happened to us
is more than enough we went to get flour
for children we have been eating animal
feed for 2 months and even that ran out
what are we supposed to do where are we
supposed to
go now this all comes as we've received
the latest figures on the numbers of
Palestinians killed in Gaza since
October now more than 30,000 people have
been killed in the territory according
to figures from the Hamas run Health
Ministry there now this graph from the
BBC verify team charts the rising number
of people killed in Gaza from Israeli
strikes which were sparked by the Hamas
attacks on Southern Israel on the 7th of
October now it shows the majority of
those killed in Gaza are women and
children and the number of children
killed so far stands at
21,000 well for more on all of the day's
developments we can go straight to
Jerusalem and join our diplomatic
correspondent Paul Adams who is there
for us Paul tell us more first of all
about what we know happened when those
Palestinians were gathering to receive
Food
Aid well one thing I can tell you
Virginia is that that account that you
heard that brief account from an Israeli
spokesman doesn't really begin to
describe what actually happened nor by
the way were these people waiting for
food Aid this was a convoy driving into
the into Gaza City at 4:00 a.m. in the
dark it had just passed an Israeli
checkpoint when uh
crowds began to descend on the trucks in
scenes that we have seen already many
times
before remember that the situation in
the northern part of the Gaza Strip is
by far the worst people are utterly
desperate any trucks that that arrive
there with Aid and very very few do
immediately get mobbed now this was a
convoy of anywhere between 18 and 30
trucks it had passed through the
checkpoint the Israeli checkpoint and at
some point while the crowds were
swarming onto the truck TR s some of
those people approached to within around
70 M of the Israeli checkpoint the
soldiers there felt they that they were
in some danger they fired shots in the
air according to the IDF and then at the
crowd in what an Israeli military
spokesman described as a limited
response the impression we get having
listened to what the IDF says and heard
from an an eyewitness a Palestinian
eyewitness who was there was that utter
Panic ensued and the pictures that have
been released by the IDF this morning
shot uh from the air at night show the
trucks attempting to move forward while
absolutely covered in people trying to
uh to retrieve Aid with thousands of
people surrounding them and in that
Mayhem it seems a significant number of
people were run over our Palestinian
Source tells us that most of the people
who died we think around 104 were killed
because they were run over by the trucks
not because of the Israeli shooting but
the shooting does seem to have
contributed to the absolute panic I mean
yeah that sounds the circumstances sound
really tragic uh whatever uh we know so
far on what happened Paul and I'm just
reading um on Reuters that a un Aid
Chief has said that they are reped at
the reported killings and injuries
during the transfer of aid supplies in
Gaza City
is there any more reaction that we've
had no I think everyone is still looking
at it trying to figure out exactly what
happened the Israelis you know they're
they're saying you look you need to look
hard at this uh listen to what we're
saying we don't want to have a repeat of
some of the mistakes that they say the
media have made in certain key episodes
in the past all I would say is that
anyone who has access to Twitter can go
uh or X should I say can go on the idf's
uh feed and look at that footage shot in
the dark the early this morning it is
utterly utterly gobsmacking the sheer
size of the crowd the fact that the
trucks are all completely covered with
people trying to retrieve Aid and that
they are moving forward it gives you it
gives me one of the most dramatically
Vivid accounts of the desperation of the
northern Gaza Strip that I have seen so
far and you don't even see anyone's
faces okay Paul Adam thank you so much
for bringing us more details on that
developing story on the ground thank you
very much